# JSNSD Review

### Execute node command from terminal

```sh
node -e "fs.mkdirSync('http-web-server')"
```

## Ch03 - Creating a Web Server

The `app.use` method takes a function which is called for every incoming request, and it will be passed a request object and a response object.

app.js
```js
'use strict'
const express = require('express')
const createError = require('http-errors')
const indexRoutes = require('./routes')
const helloRoutes = require('./routes/hello')

const app = express()

app.use('/', indexRoutes)
app.use('/hello', helloRoutes)

app.use((req, res, next) => {
  if (req.method !== 'GET') {
    next(createError(405))
    return
  }
  next(createError(404))
})

app.use((err, req, res, next) => {
  res.status(err.status || 500)
  res.send(err.message)
})

module.exports = app
```

routes/index.js
```js
'use strict'
const { Router } = require('express')
const router = Router()

const root = `<html>
  <head>
    <style>
      body { background: #333; margin: 1.25rem }
      a { color: yellow; font-size: 2rem; font-family: sans-serif }
    </style>
  </head>
  <body>
    <a href='/hello'>Hello</a>
  </body>
</html>
`

router.get('/', (req, res) => {
  res.send(root)
})

module.exports = router
```

routes/hello.js
```js
'use strict'
const { Router } = require('express')
const router = Router()

const hello = `<html>
  <head>
    <style>
      body { background: #333; margin: 1.25rem }
      h1 { color: #EEE; font-family: sans-serif }
    </style>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>Hello World</h1>
  </body>
</html>`

router.get('/', (req, res) => {
  res.send(hello)
})

module.exports = router
```

Does the request match the / GET route?

Does the request match the /hello GET route?

Is it not a GET - create 405 (method not allowed) and send to next middleware

Else no route matched - create 404 (not found) and send to next middleware

Last middleware sets the error in the response

If the `next` function is not called, then the request handling ends there and none of the ensuing registered functions are called for that request.

If an object is passed to `res.send` that object would be serialized to JSON and the response Content-Type would automatically be set to `application/json`.

Even thought the `req` and `res` objects are generated by the `http` module and have all the of the same functionality, Express decorates the `req` and `res` objects with additional functionality.

Note however - by conflating Node core APIs with Express APIs on the same objects the principle of lease surprise and separation concerns are violated, while also causing performance issues.

## Ch04 - Serving Web Content

Generally speaking, static assets (content that does not change very often) should not be served by Node. Static content should be delivered via a CDN and/or a caching reverse proxy that specializes in static content such as NGINX or Varnish.

Where Node.js shines however, is dynamic content. Using Node.js as a mediator for gathering data from multiple sources and rendering some output is perfect for such an evented language and non-blocking I/O platform.

### Serving Static Content and Templates with Express

The original focus of the Fastify framework was built on RESTful JSON services, whereas Express is more geared towards template rendering (and serving static content).

```sh
npm i -g express-generator@4
```

```sh
express --hbs express-web-server
```